---
layout: post
title: Euler's Method, Part 2

---

We had a good conversation about the details of Euler's method. Keith shared
his work on the task about the equation $$y' = \cos(y\cdot t)$$. We drew "the picture",
and you asked good questions that led us on a bit of a ramble about what might
go wrong:

  - Choice of Step Size and Accuracy
  - estimating the error
  - what happens when $$y' = f(y,t)$$ has a function $$f(y,t)$$ which is
    _nasty_ in some way? Perhaps it blows up, or oscillates wildly, or...

Answers to these things are known. We will look at improving Euler's method in a
few ways. There is the "improved Euler" method; There is "Runge-Kutta" (which is
  really a family of methods), there is good information about bounding errors.

One thing I wanted to do that we did not: talk about your equations! I still haven't
seen your examples. We will do some more of that on Monday.

### Assignment for Monday, 9/1:

Task 1. Write your own script to implement Euler's method. I don't care how, exactly.
But comment your code so I can understand how it works. I want you to turn this part
in!

Task 2. Apply your implementation to the initial value problem

$$ y' = \cos(y\cdot t), \quad y(0)=1/2 $$

for a variety of different values of the step size.

Task 3. Apply your implementation to the initial value problem

$$ y' = t^2 + y^2, \quad y(0)=1/2 $$

for a variety of different values of the step size.

Task 4. Start reading about these topics:
  - the error in Euler's method
  - Runge-Kutta
