---
layout: post
title: Euler's method, part 1

---

We discussed the way that Euler's method worked, including the _very_ simple example I gave you as an assignment. Lucas showed his work in a convenient table format. We talked a bit about how this was just using a bunch of line segments.

That example is in fact nearly as easy a differential equation that there is. To check our work, I solved the ODE analytically by a simple change of variables. This was easy because the equation was a linear, first order equation.

Next, we took time to generate questions. Remember, this is a big goal I have for you this term: _be able to ask a (reasonable) next question_.

Finally, a few of you shared equations you thought were interesting for one reason or another.

  - John shared the _pendulum equation_:

$$L \dfrac{d^2u}{dx^2} +g\cdot sin(u) = 0$$

  - Sarah shared an equation from aeronautical engineering that helps describe balancing forces on a plane lifting off of a runway:

$$ m \dfrac{d^2s}{dt^2} - (\mu \alpha - \beta) \left(\dfrac{ds}{dt}\right)^2 = T - \mu m g $$

I hope to see more equations in our next few meetings.

### Assigment for Friday, 8/28:

*Task 1.*: Consider a function $$y=y(t)$$ which is a solution to the initial value problem

$$ y' = cos(t\cdot y), \quad y(0)=1/2. $$

Use Euler's method to approximate the value of $$y(2)$$.

*Task 2.*: Think more deeply about Euler's method. What are your questions? You can do this simple procedure, but what don't you know, yet, that you would like to know? What might be important later? I want you to have two reasonable questions to turn in next time.

