---
layout: post
title: Week Five Wrap Up

---

I returned to approximately full strength this week, and we continued our work
on different methods of solution for first order equations.

#### Monday 21 September

We discussed finding solutions to _linear equations_ of first order. The trick
is that you can always find an integrating factor which is just a function of
\\(x\\).

I also briefly mentioned how _reduction of order_ works.

#### Wednesday 23 September

We took time to discuss your work on linear equations, and to make a plan for
the near future of our studies. We decided to

  * Study the Laplace Transform next (maybe three days)
  * have an exam on Friday, October 2 in class covering numerical methods,
    Picard iteration, and analytical techiniques for first order equations
  * After the exam, we will study systems of first order differential
    equations and then qualitative methods.

#### Friday 25 September

We studied the _Laplace Transform_. This is an integral transform which turns
a function \\(x \mapsto f(x)\\) into a different function \\(p \mapsto F(p)\\).
Usually, we write \\(F = \mathcal{L}[f(x)]\\) for the Laplace transform of \\(f(x)\\).

The important definition is:
\\[
\mathcal{L}[f(x)](p) = \int_0^{\infty} e^{-xp}f(x)\,dx
\\]

We discussed how this only makes sense for functions _of exponential order_
which do not grow too quickly, and then started work on computing a table of
simple Laplace transforms. We had to recall the technique of _integration by parts_.