---
layout: post
title: Heun's Improved Euler &amp; Runge-Kutta

---

We started with students sharing equations they found in the first assignment.
(Sorry. I somehow get excited about whatever math we are doing and forget to let
you talk about these.) Kieth shared Emden's equation which models the density $y$ in a spherically symmetric system (like a star) under gravity. The independent
variable here is $x$, the distance from the center.
$$
\dfrac{d^2y}{dx^2} + \dfrac{2}{x}\dfrac{dy}{dx} + y^n = 0
$$
The parameter $n$ represents "the polytropic index." We don't really know what
that means. :)  Anyway, this equation is second order, quasilinear but not linear,
and not autonomous.

Amber shared this equation for a damped harmonic oscillator for which Hooke's law
does not apply. Here $x$ is a measurement of displacement, and $t$ is time.
$$
\dfrac{d^2x}{dt^2} + \dfrac{dx}{dt} + \alpha x + \beta x^3 = \gamma \sin(\omega t)
$$
Again, this is second order, quasilinear but not linear, and not autonomous.

The we took time for you all to share your work and discuss implementations of
Heun's improved Euler method and the "two term Taylor" method. I showed off my code.

My sage worksheet for [Heun's method is here]({{site.baseurl}}/TJs-homework/heun-method.sagews), and for the
[two term Taylor method is here]({{site.baseurl}}/TJs-homework/two-term-taylor.sagews).

Then I gave a little mini-lecture on the idea of the Runge-Kutta method.

#### Assignment for Friday 9/4:

Implement the Runge-Kutta method (often called RK4 or RK45) and try it out on our
toy examples.
